README.md, before:

# Silex Skeleton

This is a basic SILEX Skeleton setup the way I personaly prefer it. This project
serves as a starting point for new Silex applications.

- igorw's `config-service-provider` to load simple PHP array configs 
- dflydev's `doctrine-orm-service-provider` for easy database access and ORM abstraction
- symfony's translation module for translations
- symfony's twig bridge as HTML template language

It also includes a simple demo app that shows you how ...

- ... to use controllers as seperate classes 
- ... HTML and JSON controllers work
- ... routing works 
- ... doctrine orm database access works
- ... internationalization of your app works
- ... REST works
- ... exception handling works

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

You must have [composer](https://getcomposer.org) and [git](https://git-scm.com) installed on your system.

### Creating a new project

1. Open a command line interface
2. run `composer create-project Takuto88/silex-skeleton path/to/install`. Composer will create a folder for your and install the new project. 
3. [Configure your system and webserver](#sysconfig)
4. Assuming you have configured your webserver to `silex-demo.dev`, navigate to http://silex-demo.dev
5. Enjoy! You can always read a [how-to](#howto) in order to proceed.

### <a name="sysconfig"></a> System and webserver config

1. Setup your webserver's virtual host. See [Apache example](#apache-example) if you're using apache.
2. Edit your hosts-file (Windows: `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`) (Unix-like systems: `/etc/hosts`) to include the following line: `127.0.0.1  [your-servername]`. If you want your project to be avaliable unter http://silex-demo.dev the line must look like: `127.0.0.1  silex-demo.dev`. Be sure that your Webserver's virtual host ServerName listens on that name! See [Apache example](#apache-example) if you're stuck
3. Reload your webserver configuration or just restart your webserver.
 
#### <a name="apache-example"></a> Apache Example config

**Don't blindly copy & paste! READ THE COMMENTS!**

In your `httpd-vhosts.conf`, include the follwing directive:

```
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerName silex-demo.dev # Must match your hosts-file name!
  DocumentRoot "/path/to/your/project/public" # Be sure to point to the /public folder in your project!
  
  <Directory /path/to/your/project>
    Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
    AllowOverride All # Not recommended on production systems
    
    # Apache 2.4 and greater
    Require all granted
    
    # Apache 2.2: Use this instead
    #Order allow,deny
    #allow from all
  </Directory>
  
  # Optional - Use this to use 'development.php' as your config-file.
  # Silex skeleton will default to 'config.php' if APPLICATION_ENV is undefined.
  # SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV development

  # Log files
  CustomLog "logs/silex-access_log" combined
  ErrorLog "logs/silex-error_log"
</VirtualHost>
```

## How to

### Use a different config-file

Configs are located in `/resources/config`. Assuming you would like to use `local_devconfig.php` instead of the default `config.php`, then do this:

You must set the `APPLICATION_ENV` environment variable to `local_devconfig`. This can be done in the following ways:

**Apache**

Add `SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV local_devconfig` to 

- `public/.htaccess` OR
- in your `httpd-vhosts.conf`

If you go for your vhosts config file, don't forget to reload the webserver configuration or to restart your webserver. 

**Other webservers** 

I'm old, I just use Apache as it is good enough for me :smile:. Feel free to send a pull request.

### Use MySQL instead of SQLite

Look at `resources/config.php.dist` for an example. For reference, I'll include that here.

```php
<?php 

return array(
        'debug' => false,
        'db.options' => array(
                'driver' => 'pdo_mysql',
                'dbname' => 'yourdb',
                'host' => '127.0.0.1',
                'user' => 'root',
                'password' => 'secret',
                'charset' => 'utf8',
                'port' => '3306',
        ),
        'db.orm.options' => array(
                'orm.default_cache' => 'apc'
        )
    
);
```

### Use a different namespace

It is highly encouraged, that you use namespaces for your projects. Assuming you would like to add the namespace named `MyApp`:

- Create a folder called "MyApp" under '/src'
- If you are going to use doctrine for your database mapping, you must make it aware of your entities. Edit the `app.php` and look for: 
```php
<?php
$app->register(new Dflydev\Silex\Provider\DoctrineOrm\DoctrineOrmServiceProvider(), array(
    'orm.proxies_dir' => __DIR__ . "/resources/cache/doctrine/proxy",
    'orm.em.options' => array(
        "mappings" => array(
            array(
                'type' => 'annotation',
                'namespace' => 'SilexSkeleton\Entity',
                'path' => __DIR__ . "/src/SilexSkeleton/Entity"
            )
        )
    )
));
```
- Add your mapping config to the mappings array. See [the doctrine orm service provider documentation](https://github.com/dflydev/dflydev-doctrine-orm-service-provider#parameters) for more details.

And you're done. Of course you can delete `src/SilexSkeleton` if you have no more use for it. It simply serves as an example on how things work.

### How do I add a route and or controller?

I am assuming we are using the SilexSkeleton namespace for now. This is an example of what's needed:

**Controller: /src/SilexSkeleton/Controller/MyNewController.php**
```php
<?php 
namespace SilexSkeleton\Controller;

class MyNewController {
  
  // Assuming you want to use twig: inject it.
  private $twig;
  
  public function __construct(\Twig_Environment $twig) {
		$this->twig = $twig;
	}
  
  public function doMyAction() {
    return $this->twig->render("myaction.html", array());
  }
  
}
```

**Template: /resources/views/myaction.html**
```
{% extends "layout.html" %}

{% block content %}
<h1>This is SilexSkeleton\Controller\MyNewController::doMyAction()</h1>
{% endblock %}
```

**Depenendy injection wiring: /app.php**
```php
<?php
// [...]
$app['controllers.mynewcontoller'] = $app->share(function() use ($app){
	return new SilexSkeleton\Controller\MyNewController($app['twig']);
});
// [...]
```

**Route: /public/index.php**
```php
<?php
$app->get('/myaction', 'controllers.mynewcontroller:doMyAction');
```

And that's all. Go to http://silex-demo.dev/mynewaction (or whatever your VHost is) in order to see what happens.

### Add a different language

Just add a new translation file to '/resources/i18n' and name it accordingly. For instance:

- **da.php** Would be for Danish.
- **fr.php** Would be for French.

You can also add more specific files:
- **de-de.php** Would be for German (Germany)
- **de-au.php** Would be for German (Austria)

The files itsef must look like this:

```php
<?php

return array(
  'messageKey' => 'Localized value to show to the user'
);
```

## Doctrine ORM pointers

As the database abstraction layer is handled by Doctrine, you should make yourself familiar with the doctrine anotations in order to create your database schema. The [annotation documentation](http://doctrine-common.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/annotations.html) will help you out.

Also, the doctrine command line tool is very useful. Just run `php /vendor/bin/doctrine`. That script is broken if you are using Windows. Run `php /vendor/doctrine/orm/bin/doctrine.php` instead and it will work fine. [Here is some documentation](http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/projects/doctrine-orm/en/latest/reference/tools.html) on the tool itself. 

Don't be afraid of Doctrine! It is actually very simple and once you've grasped it, you don't ever want to go back to plain SQL anymore.

Commit message:

PHP executable should be in path. Update docs

README.md, after:

# Silex Skeleton

This is a basic SILEX Skeleton setup the way I personaly prefer it. This project
serves as a starting point for new Silex applications.

- igorw's `config-service-provider` to load simple PHP array configs 
- dflydev's `doctrine-orm-service-provider` for easy database access and ORM abstraction
- symfony's translation module for translations
- symfony's twig bridge as HTML template language

It also includes a simple demo app that shows you how ...

- ... to use controllers as seperate classes 
- ... HTML and JSON controllers work
- ... routing works 
- ... doctrine orm database access works
- ... internationalization of your app works
- ... REST works
- ... exception handling works

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

You must have [composer](https://getcomposer.org) and [git](https://git-scm.com) installed on your system.
Also for initial setup, it is highly recommended that the php executable is in your PATH.

### Creating a new project

1. Open a command line interface
2. run `composer create-project Takuto88/silex-skeleton path/to/install`. Composer will create a folder for your and install the new project. 
3. [Configure your system and webserver](#sysconfig)
4. Assuming you have configured your webserver to `silex-demo.dev`, navigate to http://silex-demo.dev
5. Enjoy! You can always read a [how-to](#howto) in order to proceed.

### <a name="sysconfig"></a> System and webserver config

1. Setup your webserver's virtual host. See [Apache example](#apache-example) if you're using apache.
2. Edit your hosts-file (Windows: `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`) (Unix-like systems: `/etc/hosts`) to include the following line: `127.0.0.1  [your-servername]`. If you want your project to be avaliable unter http://silex-demo.dev the line must look like: `127.0.0.1  silex-demo.dev`. Be sure that your Webserver's virtual host ServerName listens on that name! See [Apache example](#apache-example) if you're stuck
3. Reload your webserver configuration or just restart your webserver.
 
#### <a name="apache-example"></a> Apache Example config

**Don't blindly copy & paste! READ THE COMMENTS!**

In your `httpd-vhosts.conf`, include the follwing directive:

```
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerName silex-demo.dev # Must match your hosts-file name!
  DocumentRoot "/path/to/your/project/public" # Be sure to point to the /public folder in your project!
  
  <Directory /path/to/your/project>
    Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
    AllowOverride All # Not recommended on production systems
    
    # Apache 2.4 and greater
    Require all granted
    
    # Apache 2.2: Use this instead
    #Order allow,deny
    #allow from all
  </Directory>
  
  # Optional - Use this to use 'development.php' as your config-file.
  # Silex skeleton will default to 'config.php' if APPLICATION_ENV is undefined.
  # SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV development

  # Log files
  CustomLog "logs/silex-access_log" combined
  ErrorLog "logs/silex-error_log"
</VirtualHost>
```

## How to

### Use a different config-file

Configs are located in `/resources/config`. Assuming you would like to use `local_devconfig.php` instead of the default `config.php`, then do this:

You must set the `APPLICATION_ENV` environment variable to `local_devconfig`. This can be done in the following ways:

**Apache**

Add `SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV local_devconfig` to 

- `public/.htaccess` OR
- in your `httpd-vhosts.conf`

If you go for your vhosts config file, don't forget to reload the webserver configuration or to restart your webserver. 

**Other webservers** 

I'm old, I just use Apache as it is good enough for me :smile:. Feel free to send a pull request.

### Use MySQL instead of SQLite

Look at `resources/config.php.dist` for an example. For reference, I'll include that here.

```php
<?php 

return array(
        'debug' => false,
        'db.options' => array(
                'driver' => 'pdo_mysql',
                'dbname' => 'yourdb',
                'host' => '127.0.0.1',
                'user' => 'root',
                'password' => 'secret',
                'charset' => 'utf8',
                'port' => '3306',
        ),
        'db.orm.options' => array(
                'orm.default_cache' => 'apc'
        )
    
);
```

### Use a different namespace

It is highly encouraged, that you use namespaces for your projects. Assuming you would like to add the namespace named `MyApp`:

- Create a folder called "MyApp" under '/src'
- If you are going to use doctrine for your database mapping, you must make it aware of your entities. Edit the `app.php` and look for: 
```php
<?php
$app->register(new Dflydev\Silex\Provider\DoctrineOrm\DoctrineOrmServiceProvider(), array(
    'orm.proxies_dir' => __DIR__ . "/resources/cache/doctrine/proxy",
    'orm.em.options' => array(
        "mappings" => array(
            array(
                'type' => 'annotation',
                'namespace' => 'SilexSkeleton\Entity',
                'path' => __DIR__ . "/src/SilexSkeleton/Entity"
            )
        )
    )
));
```
- Add your mapping config to the mappings array. See [the doctrine orm service provider documentation](https://github.com/dflydev/dflydev-doctrine-orm-service-provider#parameters) for more details.

And you're done. Of course you can delete `src/SilexSkeleton` if you have no more use for it. It simply serves as an example on how things work.

### How do I add a route and or controller?

I am assuming we are using the SilexSkeleton namespace for now. This is an example of what's needed:

**Controller: /src/SilexSkeleton/Controller/MyNewController.php**
```php
<?php 
namespace SilexSkeleton\Controller;

class MyNewController {
  
  // Assuming you want to use twig: inject it.
  private $twig;
  
  public function __construct(\Twig_Environment $twig) {
		$this->twig = $twig;
	}
  
  public function doMyAction() {
    return $this->twig->render("myaction.html", array());
  }
  
}
```

**Template: /resources/views/myaction.html**
```
{% extends "layout.html" %}

{% block content %}
<h1>This is SilexSkeleton\Controller\MyNewController::doMyAction()</h1>
{% endblock %}
```

**Depenendy injection wiring: /app.php**
```php
<?php
// [...]
$app['controllers.mynewcontoller'] = $app->share(function() use ($app){
	return new SilexSkeleton\Controller\MyNewController($app['twig']);
});
// [...]
```

**Route: /public/index.php**
```php
<?php
$app->get('/myaction', 'controllers.mynewcontroller:doMyAction');
```

And that's all. Go to http://silex-demo.dev/mynewaction (or whatever your VHost is) in order to see what happens.

### Add a different language

Just add a new translation file to '/resources/i18n' and name it accordingly. For instance:

- **da.php** Would be for Danish.
- **fr.php** Would be for French.

You can also add more specific files:
- **de-de.php** Would be for German (Germany)
- **de-au.php** Would be for German (Austria)

The files itsef must look like this:

```php
<?php

return array(
  'messageKey' => 'Localized value to show to the user'
);
```

## Doctrine ORM pointers

As the database abstraction layer is handled by Doctrine, you should make yourself familiar with the doctrine anotations in order to create your database schema. The [annotation documentation](http://doctrine-common.readthedocs.org/en/latest/reference/annotations.html) will help you out.

Also, the doctrine command line tool is very useful. Just run `php /vendor/bin/doctrine`. That script is broken if you are using Windows. Run `php /vendor/doctrine/orm/bin/doctrine.php` instead and it will work fine. [Here is some documentation](http://doctrine-orm.readthedocs.org/projects/doctrine-orm/en/latest/reference/tools.html) on the tool itself. 

Don't be afraid of Doctrine! It is actually very simple and once you've grasped it, you don't ever want to go back to plain SQL anymore.
